#summary API documentation for pxmLib
#labels pxmLib, API, documentation

= pxmLib API documentation =

== Creation, disposal, and external representations ==

=== pxmCreate ===
{{{
pxmRef	pxmCreate( void* inData, UInt32 inSize );
}}}

Creates a pxmRef from an external representation. You supply the pointer to the bytes, and the length of the bytes.

This function performs any necessary byte-swapping for you.

After you have created a pxmRef, you must later free it by calling pxmDispose.

=== pxmDispose ===
{{{
pxmErr	pxmDispose( pxmRef inRef );
}}}

Frees a pxmRef created by pxmCreate.

If you pass `NULL`, this function returns `pxmErrBadParams`. Otherwise, it returns `pxmErrNone`.

=== pxmRead ===
{{{
pxmErr	pxmRead( pxmRef inRef, void* ioBuffer, UInt32* ioSize );
}}}

Writes `inRef` to `ioBuffer` in its external-representation.

This function peforms any necessary byte-swapping for you.

=== pxmSize ===
{{{
UInt32	pxmSize( pxmRef inRef );
}}}

Returns the total length in bytes of the pxmRef.

== Accessors ==

=== pxmBounds ===
{{{
pxmErr	pxmBounds( pxmRef inRef, Rect *outRect );
}}}

Returns the bounds as a QuickDraw Rect. Keep in mind that QuickDraw Rects have their origin in the top left.

The Rect is returned by reference. If either `inRef` or `outRect` is `NULL`, this function returns `pxmErrBadParams`. Otherwise, it returns `pxmErrNone`.

=== pxmHasAlpha ===
{{{
bool	pxmHasAlpha( pxmRef inRef );
}}}

Returns whether the pixels contained in the pxmRef have alpha (opacity) information.

=== pxmPixelSize ===
{{{
UInt16	pxmPixelSize( pxmRef inRef );
}}}

Returns the size, *in bits*, of each pixel in the pxmRef.

=== pxmPixelType ===
{{{
UInt16	pxmPixelType( pxmRef inRef );
}}}

Returns a pixel-type constant. Valid constants are:

  * `pxmTypeIndexed`: 8-bit indexed color.
  * `pxmTypeDirect16`: 16-bit RGB.
  * `pxmTypeDirect32`: 32-bit RGBA.

=== pxmImageCount ===
{{{
UInt16	pxmImageCount( pxmRef inRef );
}}}

Returns the number of image frames in the pxmRef.

When `pxmIsMultiMask` returns true, `pxmImageCount` is also the number of masks.

=== pxmIsMultiMask ===
{{{
bool	pxmIsMultiMask( pxmRef inRef );
}}}

Returns whether the pxmRef contains one mask per image (true), or exactly one mask for all images (false).

== Image retrieval ==

=== pxmBaseAddressForFrame ===
{{{
void	*pxmBaseAddressForFrame( pxmRef inRef, UInt32 imageIndex );
}}}

Returns the base address for the pixel data at the given 0-based index. You can use this to create a `CGImage` or `NSBitmapImageRep`, among other things.
