= What is MacCode =

People come to MacCode, and they see the code, but there's more to it. MacCode was born out of frustration. I was really frustrated when trying to find implementations of things I wanted to do that I was positive I had seen somewhere before.

Someone else expressed this same frustration to me. He knew he had seen a implementation of an image class one day, but he couldn't find it anymore. He would have to redo the code.

So I started MacCode the next day. We moved PSMTabBarControl and the UnifiedToolbar over from ChatKit, and then we got the code for Aquatic Prime in as well. Since then we've been growing.


= How does MacCode work =

Here are the general principles behind MacCode:
  * Getting a large amount of code for perusal offline should be *simple*.
  * It should be easy to get updates to all of the code you have checked out.
  * You should not have to look for hours to find the code you need.
  * Code should be viable for use in both commercial/shareware applications, along with freeware/open source applications. Hence we use the New BSD (3 clause BSD).
 

 
= Getting involved =

Getting involved is easy. If you have a snippet of code you would like included, make sure it has the 3 clause BSD in it, and then file an issue with that code attached. That's it.

If you have something bigger, a project for instance, it must be 3 clause BSD. You will be responsible for administering that project within the MacCode repository to some extent (exceptions can be made, just let Chris know).

= Use of External Repositories =

Whenever an external repository with BSD code is found which can be used by a Mac Coder, it will be added to our Externals list. If you find an external repository which is not included in our list, please create an Issue and let us know about it.
 